cinema4d release 13 comes with an
all-new muscle system it's not only
rewritten from scratch but it also gives
you the possibility for dynamics
behavior but how is the setup done let's
look at this scene we've got a muscle
here and if we play the animation you
can see the muscle is working perfectly
if we go back to frame 0 and change the
animate mode to edit mode you can see
what we've done here you have three
states relaxed compressed and extend it
in most cases you will only need relaxed
and compressed if you've created your
muscle from the character menu simply
move the points to the proper positions
make sure that the second point has a
slight offset to the joint so when the
arm bends the muscle has the chance to
get shorter now in the straight position
go to the relaxed state and click on set
this will save the length of the muscle
now bend your arm and go to the compress
state and click on set again the muscle
is now shorter and the compressed date
is saved afterwards you can go into the
relaxed and compressed state in points
mode and define the shape of the muscle
now what you only need to make this work
is an M skin object create an M skin
object and make it a child of your arm
but make sure that it comes after the
skin object now if you go back to
animate mode you can click on play and
you will see that the muscle is doing
its job thanks for watching for more
information on cinema 4d or alpha Maxim
products please visit the university
come on max on the 10th